Week-1/Day-2/Day-2.md, before:

#### *17th September 2022*
# Day 2


## **Car Price Prediction**
How can we help a user select the best price for their car?

## Project plan
- Prepare data and do EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis)
- Use linear regression for predicting price
- Understand the internals of linear regression
- Evaluating the model with RMSE
- Feature engineering
- Regularization
- Using the model

**Notebook:**

### 1. Data preparation
- Change the column names to all lowercase and replace spaces with underscores
- Change the string values to all lowercase and replace spaces with underscores

This helps with consistency and dealing with data.

❌ Will not work to access the column:
```python
df.Transmission Type
```

✔ Will work to access the column:
```python
df.transmission_type
```
### 2. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
- Find the number of unique values for each column, as well as the first 5 unique values
- Find the distribution of ``mrsp`` (price) by plotting a histogram
  -   ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70928356/190876437-55735ee3-1bee-4cb6-8678-fdf12b25482f.png)
     > This type of distribution is called **Long Tail Distribution**
     
     > This kind of distribution is not really good for ML (the tail will confuse the model)
     
     > To get rid of this long tail, we will apply logarithmic distribution to get more compact values
  -   **Logarithmic distribution:**
      -   Since we cannot apply the log function to 0 (will be undefined), we will add 1 to each value to be sure that there are no 0s.
          ```python 
              np.log([0+1, 1+1, 10+1, 1000+1, 100000+1])
              output: array([ 0. , 0.69314718, 2.39789527, 6.90875478, 11.51293546])
          ```
          A NumPy function adds 1s manually, called ```np.log1p()```
  - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70928356/190876668-7f69b071-ca60-45b0-b443-a003a6cfc987.png)
  > We can now see that the long tail is gone and values are more compact
 
### 3. Setting up the validation framework
- Shuffle the dataset 
> If you split the data then the resulting sets won't represent the true distribution of the dataset. Therefore, we have to shuffle the original dataset in order to minimise variance and ensure that the model will generalise well to new, unseen data points.
- Split dataset into:
  - Train: 60%
  - Validation: 20%
  - Test: 20%
- Apply log transformation to target variable y `msrp`
- Remove target variable from dataframe to avoid using it as a feature

Commit message:

More about long tail distribution

Week-1/Day-2/Day-2.md, after:

#### *17th September 2022*
# Day 2


## **Car Price Prediction**
How can we help a user select the best price for their car?

## Project plan
- Prepare data and do EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis)
- Use linear regression for predicting price
- Understand the internals of linear regression
- Evaluating the model with RMSE
- Feature engineering
- Regularization
- Using the model

**Notebook:**

### 1. Data preparation
- Change the column names to all lowercase and replace spaces with underscores
- Change the string values to all lowercase and replace spaces with underscores

This helps with consistency and dealing with data.

❌ Will not work to access the column:
```python
df.Transmission Type
```

✔ Will work to access the column:
```python
df.transmission_type
```
### 2. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
- Find the number of unique values for each column, as well as the first 5 unique values
- Find the distribution of ``mrsp`` (price) by plotting a histogram
  -   ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70928356/190876437-55735ee3-1bee-4cb6-8678-fdf12b25482f.png)
     > This type of distribution is called **Long Tail Distribution**
     
     > This kind of distribution is not really good for ML (the tail will confuse the model)
     
     > To get rid of this long tail, we will apply logarithmic distribution to get more compact values
  -   **Logarithmic distribution:**
      -   Since we cannot apply the log function to 0 (will be undefined), we will add 1 to each value to be sure that there are no 0s.
          ```python 
              np.log([0+1, 1+1, 10+1, 1000+1, 100000+1])
              output: array([ 0. , 0.69314718, 2.39789527, 6.90875478, 11.51293546])
          ```
          A NumPy function adds 1s manually, called ```np.log1p()```
  - ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70928356/190876668-7f69b071-ca60-45b0-b443-a003a6cfc987.png)
  > We can now see that the long tail is gone and values are more compact
 
#### 💡 More about long tail distribution
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70928356/190880185-63787ae7-8311-4d68-b8d6-44d4105f4b1e.png)

**What is it?**

Long tail distribution *(also referred to as power law and pareto)* is a distribution with a trailing end and the events on the end of the tail have a very low probability of happening. It is a subtype of heavy-tailed distribution.

Examples that exhibit this distribution:
- Income distribution of a business 
- Intensity of earthquakes
- Occurrence of certain words in a given language

<a href="https://towardsdatascience.com/the-power-of-long-tailed-distributions-bd46f8856039">A great article about this</a>
<a href="https://www.statology.org/long-tail-distribution/">More examples</a>

### 3. Setting up the validation framework
- Shuffle the dataset 
> If you split the data then the resulting sets won't represent the true distribution of the dataset. Therefore, we have to shuffle the original dataset in order to minimise variance and ensure that the model will generalise well to new, unseen data points.
- Split dataset into:
  - Train: 60%
  - Validation: 20%
  - Test: 20%
- Apply log transformation to target variable y `msrp`
- Remove target variable from dataframe to avoid using it as a feature
